# Making Your First Game, Part 2: Lighting

## Introduction
This tutorial series will guide you towards making your first game in pygame-topdownengine! If you haven't completed the previous tutorial in this series, go back and finish that one and then come back here.

In this tutorial, we will be guiding you towards the (very simple) steps it takes to add lighting to your game in pygame-topdownengine. We will be continuing from the code from the previous tutorial, which you can find [here](1_quickstart.md).

## But first... , let's talk scenes
In the last tutorial, we briefly went over the role of scenes in the engine. This time, let's talk more in depth.

All scenes are subclasses from the `BaseScene` class. Scenes have to define three methods: `handle_event`, `update`, and `render`. The `handle_event` method is called by the `Game` class during the event loop, and it takes in a `pygame.Event` object. The `update` method is called by the `Game` class during the update loop and takes in deltatime as a `float`. Finally, the `render` method is called by the `Game` class during rendering after the screen has been filled with `Game.bg_color`. It takes in no parameter.

For most projects, you will likely need to make your own scene classes, seeing as they control updates and rendering. However, for this tutorial, we will only be using the `BaseScene` class for the main menu and the `GameplayScene` class for the actual gameplay itself.

## Light it up!
Now this whole talk about scenes may have you wondering, *What does this remotely have to with lighting?* Actually, a lot. The built-in lighting system that the engine comes with is actually integrated into the `GameplayScene`. The pre-built lighting system works by drawing a semi-transparent black `Surface` on top of the entire screen. Each `GameObject` has a `light_radius` attribute that is set to `0` on initialization. Using the `position` and `light_radius` of each `GameObject`, the `GameplayScene` draws circular "cut-outs" into the black `Surface` before it is blitted to the screen. The "cut-outs" are only drawn if `light_radius` is greater than `0`.

## The Global Alpha
The alpha value of the `GameplayScene`'s black overlay (before light sources) is controlled by the `GameplayScene.global_alpha` attribute. On initialization, it is set to `0`, which is why there was no lighting generated by the code from the previous tutorial.

Let's start writing code! Right before the `game.run` call from the previous tutorial code, add this code:
```
# Lighting
game.scenes["gameplay"].global_alpha = 150
```

As explained in the previous tutorial, the `GameplayScene` object is stored in `Game.scenes["gameplay"]` by default. So, this code simply retrieves that `GameplayScene` object and sets the `global_alpha` attribute to `150`.

If you run the code right now, you should see the exact same menu as before. Once you click play, you should see the exact same gameplay, the only catch being that everything looks much darker now.

!!! info "global_alpha"
    The `global_alpha` attribute must be between `0` and `255`, inclusively.

## Light Sources
Now that we have darkness, let's add light sources! Remember, to add light sources, all you need to do is set any `GameObject`'s `light_radius` attribute to a number greater than `0`. Right after the `global_alpha` assignment, add this code to make both the player and enemy light sources:
```
player.light_radius = 24
enemy.light_radius = 24
```

If you run the code now, you should see that both the player and enemy both have smooth circles of light around them. You should also notice that jumping will move the light up with you.

## Conclusion
As always, you can view the example code on [GitHub](https://github.com/shaurya-sharma-dev/pygame-topdownengine/blob/main/examples/lighting_system.py).